
## <a name='contents'>Table of Contents</a>

  1. [](#)
  1. [](#)
  1. [](#)
  1. [4.6 Examples Using the for Statement](#)
  1. [](#)
  1. [4.11 Confusing Equality (==) and Assignment (=) Operators](#4.11)
  1. [](#)
  1. [](#)  
  ### <a name=''> :</a>
  ### <a name=''> :</a>
  ### <a name=''> :</a>
  ### <a name='4.6'>4.6 Examples Using the for Statement :</a>
  **如果不受内存限制，就尽量用double而非float.  
  因为存在精度差，所以做金融计算别用float/double，尽量用整型。**  
  Do not use variables of type float or double to perform monetary calculations. The impreciseness of floating-point numbers can cause errors that will result in incorrect monetary values. 
  ### <a name=''> :</a>
   
 ###  <a name='4.11'> 4.11 Confusing Equality (==) and Assignment (=) Operators:</a>  
   某些人喜欢写成 **7 == a**, 而不是 **a == 7** ,下面这几段就是原因。  
   There’s one type of error that C programmers, no matter how experienced, tend to make so frequently that we feel it is worth a separate section. That error is accidentally swapping the operators == (equality) and = (assignment). What makes these swaps so damaging is the fact that they do not ordinarily cause compilation errors. Rather, statements with these errors ordinarily compile correctly, allowing programs to run to completion while likely generating incorrect results through runtime logic errors.
Two aspects of C cause these problems. One is that any expression that produces a value can be used in the decision portion of any control statement. If the value is 0, it’s treated as false, and if the value is nonzero, it’s treated as true. The second is that assignments in C produce a value, namely the value that’s assigned to the variable on the left side of the assignment operator.
   You’ll probably be inclined to write conditions such as x == 7 with the variable name on the left and the constant on the right. By reversing these terms so that the constant is on the left and the variable name is on the right, as in 7 == x, then if you accidentally replace the == operator with =, you’ll be protected by the compiler. The compiler will treat this as a syntax error, because only a variable name can be placed on the left-hand side of an as- signment expression. This will prevent the potential devastation of a runtime logic error.
Variable names are said to be lvalues (for “left values”) because they can be used on the left side of an assignment operator. Constants are said to be rvalues (for “right values”) because they can be used only on the right side of an assignment operator. lvalues can also be used as rvalues, but not vice versa.
   
  ### <a name=''> :</a>
