
## <a name='contents'>Table of Contents</a>

  1. [5.6 Function Prototypes: A Deeper Look](#5.6)
  1. [5.7 Function Call Stack and Stack Frames](#5.7)
  1. [5.9 Passing Arguments By Value and By Reference](#5.9)
  1. [5.10 Random Number Generation](#5.10)
  1. [5.12 Storage Classes](#5.12)
  1. [5.13 Scope Rules](#5.13)
  1. [5.15 Recursion](#5.15)
  1. [5.16 Example Using Recursion: Fibonacci Series](#5.16)
  1. [5.17 Secure C Programming](#5.17)
 
### <a name='5.6'>General 5.6 Function Prototypes: A Deeper Look :</a>
The compiler uses function prototypes to validate function calls.   
Include parameter names in function prototypes for documentation purposes. The compiler ignores these names, so the prototype int maximum(int, int, int); is valid.  

### <a name='5.7'>5.7 Function Call Stack and Stack Frames :</a>
Function Call Stack and Stack Frames的内容和作用分别是什么？

Stacks are known as **last-in, first-out (LIFO)** data structures—the last item pushed (inserted) on the stack is the first item popped (removed) from the stack.

**stack frame**: return address + the called function’s automatic variables

**stack overflow**：Because the amount of memory in a computer is finite, so only a certain amount of memory can be used to store stack frames on the function call stack. If more function calls occur than can have their stack frames stored on the function call stack, a fatal error known as stack overflow occurs.

**function call stack/program execution stack**:
function call stack working “behind the scenes”—supports the function call/return mechanism. It also supports the creation, maintenance and destruction of each called function’s local variables (also called automatic variables).
 
 As each function is called, it may call other functions, which may call other functions—all before any function returns. Each function eventually must return control to the function that called it. So, we must keep track of the return addresses that each function needs to return control to the function that called it. The function call stack is the perfect data structure for handling this information. *Each time a function calls another function, an entry is pushed onto the stack. This entry, called a *stack frame*, contains the return address that the called function needs in order to return to the calling function.*  If the called function returns, instead of calling another function before returning, the stack frame for the function call is popped, and control transfers to the return address in the popped stack frame.

这段我是这么理解的：

function call stack是主调和被调 function call的工作机制(而不是按顺序调用的function的工作机制)。负责local variables的
creation+maintenance+destruction.

把 { 理解成function的entry，把 } 理解成function的return address。

在function是嵌套调用的关系下，先被call的function的 “{” 先被pushed onto the function call stack,先被执行完的function的 "}" 被先popped。

因为嵌套调用的function都是这么写的：
``` C
void main_function (void) {//1.先运行到这里

function1();

function2();

}//6.最后这里才结束


void function1 () {//2.再运行到这里

};//3.这里先结束


void function2 () {//4.然后是运行到这里

};//5.这里再结束
```



因为function1 function2和 main_function是被调和主调的关系，所以function1 和function2都先于main_function被poped;但是function1和function2不是主调被调关系，是先后关系，所以别用function call stack想这个问题。



### <a name='5.9'>5.9 Passing Arguments By Value and By Reference :</a>
**pass-by-value**:**a copy of the argument’s value** is made and passed to the called function. Changes to the copy **do not affect an original variable’s value** in the caller.Pass-by-value should be used whenever the called function does not need to modify the value of the caller’s original variable.
**pass-by-reference**:the caller allows the called function to **modify the original variable’s value**.Pass-by-reference should be used only with trusted called functions that need to modify the original variable.

### <a name='5.10'> 5.10 **Random Number Generation** :</a>

- [srand](https://en.cppreference.com/w/c/numeric/random/srand)  
- [rand](https://en.cppreference.com/w/c/numeric/random/rand)
``` C
#include <stdio.h>
#include <stdlib.h>
#include <time.h>
int randomNumber (int,int);
int main(void)
{
    printf("%d",randomNumber(3,1000));
}
int randomNumber (int min,int max)
{
    if(max>min) {
        srand(time(NULL)); // use current time as seed for random generator
        int range = max-min;
        int random_variable = min + rand()%range;
        return random_variable;
    }else {
        return 0;
    }
}
```

### <a name='5.12'> 5.12 Storage Classes:</a>
Actually, each user-defined functions in a program has other attributes, including storage class, storage duration, scope and linkage.  
**storage class**: An user-defined function’s storage class determines its storage duration, scope and linkage.  
**storage duration**: An user-defined function’s storage duration is the period during which the identifier exists in memory.  
**scope**: An user-defined function’s scope is where the identifier can be referenced in a program.  
**linkage**: An user-defined function’s linkage determines for a multiple-source-file program whether the identifier is known only in the current source file or in any source file with proper declarations.  

**storage class specifiers**: auto, register, extern, static 

The storage-class specifiers can be split between:
**automatic storage duration**:Keyword **auto** is used to declare variables of automatic storage duration. Variables with automatic storage duration are created when program control enters the block in which they’re defined; they exist while the block is active, and they’re destroyed when program control exits the block.  
**static storage duration**:书上没说  
**Local Variables**： Local variables have automatic storage duration by default, so keyword auto is rarely used.  
**Static Storage Class**： Keywords extern and static are used in the declarations of identifiers for variables and functions of static storage duration. **Identifiers of static storage duration exist from the time at which the program begins execution until the program terminates. For static variables, storage is allocated and initialized only once, before the program begins execution. For functions, the name of the function exists when the program begins execution. However, even though the variables and the function names exist from the start of program execution, this does not mean that these identifiers can be accessed throughout the program. Storage duration and scope (where a name can be used) are separate issues**      
There are several types of identifiers with static storage duration: external identifiers (such as global variables and function names) and local variables declared with the storage-class specifier static. **Global variables and function names are of storage class extern by default.** Global variables are created by placing variable declarations outside any function definition, and they retain their values throughout the execution of the program. Global variables and functions can be referenced by any function that follows their declarations or definitions in the file. This is one reason for using function prototypes—when we include stdio.h in a program that calls printf, the function prototype is placed at the start of our file to make the name printf known to the rest of the file.  

 **static的variable在program开始执行前被allocate & initialize一次 ** .   
** [static function](https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/what-are-static-functions-in-c/)的name exists when the program begins execution. **
 
Local variables declared with the keyword static are still known only in the function in which they’re defined, but unlike automatic variables, static local variables retain their value when the function is exited. The next time the function is called, the static local variable contains the value it had when the function last exited. 

 All numeric variables of static storage duration are initialized to zero by default if you do not explicitly initialize them.
 
### <a name='5.13'>5.13 Scope Rules:</a>  
The **scope of an identifier** is the portion of the program in which the identifier can be referenced.   
Labels(identifiers followed by a colon such as start:) are the only identifiers with function scope.    
An identifier declared outside any function has file scope.  
Identifiers defined inside a block have block scope.   
The only identifiers with function-prototype scope are those used in the parameter list of a function prototype.  
``` C
//
```
### <a name='5.14'>5.14 Recursion:</a>   
A recursive function is one that **calls itself** either directly or indirectly through another function.  
Recursive problem-solving approaches have a number of elements in common. A recursive function is called to solve a problem. The function actually knows how to solve only the simplest case(s), or so-called base case(s).If the function is called with a base case, the function simply returns a result. If the function is called with a more complex problem, the function typically divides the problem into two conceptual pieces: a piece that the function knows how to do and a piece that it does not know how to do. To make recursion feasible, the latter piece must resemble the original problem, but be a slightly simpler or smaller version. Because this new problem looks like the original problem, the function launches (calls) a fresh copy of itself to work on the smaller problem—this is referred to as a recursive call or the recursion step. The recursion step also includes a return statement, because its result will be combined with the portion of the problem the function knew how to solve to form a result that will be passed back to the original caller.  
The recursion step executes while the original call to the function is paused, waiting for the result from the recursion step. The recursion step can result in many more such recursive calls, as the function keeps dividing each problem with which it’s called into two conceptual pieces. For the recursion to terminate, each time the function calls itself with a slightly simpler version of the original problem, this sequence of smaller problems must eventually converge on the base case. When the function recognizes the base case, it returns a result to the previous copy of the function, and a sequence of returns ensues all the way up the line until the original call of the function eventually returns the final result to its caller. As an example of these concepts at work, let’s write a recursive program to perform a popular mathematical calculation.  
``` C
//
```
### <a name='5.15'>5.15 Example Using Recursion: Fibonacci Series:</a>   
The Fibonacci series
0, 1, 1, 2, 3, 5, 8, 13, 21, ...
begins with 0 and 1 and has the property that each subsequent Fibonacci number is the sum of the previous two Fibonacci numbers.
Question: What's the number at index 'n'?
``` C
//用递归的方法求Fibonacci数列里的第n个数字是多少
unsigned long long int fibonacci(unsigned int n)
{
    // base case
    if (0 == n || 1 == n) {
        return n;
    }
    else { // recursive step
        return fibonacci(n - 1) + fibonacci(n - 2);
    }
}
//时间复杂度：???
//空间复杂度：???
//当n比较大时，会stack overflow. 
//用递归算这个，中间会有很多重复计算，所以……
```
### <a name='5.16'>5.16 Recursion vs. Iteration:</a>   
Iteration with counter-controlled iteration and recursion each gradually approach termination: Iteration keeps modifying a counter until the counter assumes a value that makes the loop-continuation condition fail; recursion keeps producing simpler versions of the original problem until the base case is reached.  
Both iteration and recursion can occur infinitely: An infinite loop occurs with iteration if the loop-continuation test never becomes false; infinite recursion occurs if the recursion step does not reduce the problem each time in a manner that converges on the base case. Infinite iteration and recursion typically occur as a result of errors in a program’s logic.  
Recursion has many negatives. It repeatedly invokes the mechanism, and consequently the overhead, of function calls. This can be expensive in both processor time and memory space. Each recursive call causes another copy of the function (actually only the function’s variables) to be created; this can consume considerable memory. Iteration normally occurs within a function, so the overhead of repeated function calls and extra memory assignment is omitted.   
So why choose recursion?

Good software engineering is important.  
High performance is important.  
Unfortunately, these goals are often at odds with one another.   
Good software engineering is key to making more manageable the task of developing the larger and more complex software systems we need.  
High performance is key to realizing the systems of the future that will place ever greater computing demands on hardware. 

### <a name='5.17'>5.17 Secure C Programming:</a>   
If you’re building industrial-strength applications that require random numbers, you should investigate for your platform the recommended function(s) to use.

