
## <a name='contents'>Table of Contents</a>

  1. [6.2 Arrays](#6.2)
  1. [6.3 Defining Arrays](#6.3)
  1. [6.4 Array Examples](#6.4)
  1. [6.5 Using Character Arrays to Store and Manipulate Strings](#6.5)
  1. [6.7 Passing Arrays to Functions](#6.7)
  1. [6.8 Sorting Arrays](#6.8)
  1. [6.9 CaseStudy:Computing Mean, Median and Mode Using Arrays](#6.9)
  1. [6.10 Searching Arrays](#6.10)
  1. [6.11 Multidimensional Arrays](#6.11)
  1. [6.12 Variable-Length Arrays](#6.12)
  1. [6.13 Secure C Programming](#6.13)
  1. [](#)
  
  indice和index都代表 subscript
  
 ### <a name='6.2'> 6.2 Arrays:</a>
An array is **a group of contiguous memory locations that all have the same type**. To refer to a particular location or element in the array, we specify the array’s name and the position number of the particular element in the array.
 ### <a name='6.3'>6.3 DefiningArrays :</a>
   C语言数组格式：
定义：
``` C
DataType array_name[subsript] = {element1,element2,......elementN};
```
创建过程：   
1.确定DataType。也就是数组元素element的type，所有element的type**必须**一致  
2.设置array_name。注意命名规范，非数字开头，私有的用_开头，全小写字母，单词间用_，长的用缩写  
3.确定subscript。先看这个数组的个数是由这个subscript确定还是等号右边{}里element的个数确定。如果是subscript,则这个subscript必须要写，而且是某个确定的值（如str[3]）或能经过某个确定的表达式算出来(str[a+b])；如果是由右边element的个数确定，这个subscript可以不写，而且subscript就是右边element的个数(如int num[] = {1,2,3})。  
4.确定如何写element。如果已经确定了上一步的subscript，可以不写element；也可以写。但是element的个数一定不能超过subscript，超过则syntax error；如果element的个数小于subscript，则其余空位被提供默认值（比如int的就是0）。  

 [ ]:
[]是4个优先级最高的运算符之一 [] () . ->
结合顺序：从左往右  

读取：  
DataType ax = array_name[index];  
赋值：  
array_name[index] = element;//index范围是0到subscript-1  
  
Arrays and structs are “static” entities in that they remain the same size throughout program execution  
  ### <a name='6.4'> 6.4 Array Examples:</a>
  
数组作为函数的参数时，要传数组名和个数，如：  
int nums[5] = {};  
modify(nums,5);  

只有字符数组才以 '\0'结束，其他的数组没\0  

 Example:
``` C
int a[3] = {};  
```
``` C
int a=5,b=6;  
int nums[a+b] = {};//这么写会报这个错误：Variable-sized object may not be initialized  
int c = nums[b-a];//但是可以这么写。如果b-a超出nums的范围，则结果随机  
```
``` C
int a[] = {1,2,3};//数组总计3个，可以有a[0],a[1],a[2]  
```
``` C
int b[10] = {1,2};//{1,2,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0}  
```
``` C
#define count 10
int a[count] = {};//把subscript写成宏，有助于修改，注意这种宏定义后别写分号  
```
``` C
int a[3] = {};  
a[0] = 1;  //给第一个元素赋值
```
``` C
char strings[] = "string"; //Every string contains a special string-termination character called the null character \0  
char strings[] = {'s','t','r','i','n','g','\0'}; 
```
``` C
char chars[20] = {};
scanf("%s",chars);//注意这行chars前没用&。&用来取地址，但是因为数组名就是这个数组的第一个元素地址，所以不用写&。
```
 ### <a name='6.5'>6.5 Using Character Arrays to Store and Manipulate Strings :</a> 
 
• **A string literal such as "hello" is really an array of individual characters in C.**  
• A character array can be initialized using a string literal. In this case, the size of the array is determined by the compiler based on the length of the string.  
```C
char firstName[] = "first Name";
```
• **Every string contains a special string-termination character called the null character .  
The character constant representing the null character is '\0'.**  .
```C
char firstName[] = {'m','i','n','g','\0'};
```
• A character array representing a string should always be defined large enough to hold the number of characters in the string and the terminating null character.  
• Character arrays also can be initialized with individual character constants in an initializer list.  
``` C
char firstName[] = {'m','i','n','g','\0'};
```
• Because a string is really an array of characters,we can access individual characters in a string directly using array index notation. 
``` C
char string1[] = "first";
printf("%c",string1[1]);
```
• You can input a string directly into a character array from the keyboard using scanf and the conversion specifier %s. **The name of the character array is passed to scanf without the preceding & used with non-array variables**.  
• Function scanf reads characters from the keyboard until **the first white-space character** is encountered—it does not check the array size. Thus, **scanf can write beyond the end of the array**.  
• A character array representing a string can be output with printf and the %s conversion specifier. The characters of the string are printed until a terminating null character is encountered.  

  ### <a name='6.7'> 6.7 Passing Arrays to Functions:</a>    
    To pass an array argument to a function, specify the array’s name without any brackets.
中文翻译的第八版书上有这么一段"**与包含字符串的字符数组不同，其他类型的数组没有一个特殊的结束符。因此，调用函数时，数组的大小也必须传递给函数，这样，被调函数才能处理正确数目的数组元素。**"
``` C
int hourlyTemperatures[HOURS_IN_A_DAY];
modifyArray(hourlyTemperatures, HOURS_IN_A_DAY);//传递数组
modifyElement(hourlyTemperatures[0]);//传递元素
```
**Recall that all arguments in C are passed by value. 
C automatically passes arrays to functions by reference (again, we’ll see in Chapter 7 that this is not a contradiction)—the called functions can modify the element values in the callers’ original arrays. 
The array’s name evaluates to the address of the array’s first element. 
Because the starting address of the array is passed, the called function knows precisely where the array is stored. 
Therefore, when the called function modifies array elements in its function body, it’s modifying the actual elements of the array in their original memory locations. ** 
**“the value of an array name” is really the address of the first element of the array**

**Difference Between Passing an Entire Array and Passing an Array Element？** （Array-reference element-value）  

 ### <a name='6.8'>6.8 SortingArrays :</a> 
**The chief virtue of the bubble sort is that it’s easy to program. However, it runs slowly because every exchange moves an element only one position closer to its final destination. This becomes apparent when sorting large arrays.** In the exercises, we’ll develop more effi- cient versions of the bubble sort.
 //冒泡排序这种带有重复运算的也就能在少量数据时用
``` C
void bubbleSort (int array[],int count)
{
    for (unsigned int x = 1; x < count; ++x) {
        // loop to control number of comparisons per pass
        for (size_t y = 0; y < count - 1; ++y) {
            // compare adjacent elements and swap them if first element is greater than second element
            //比较相邻的两个元素，如果第一个比第二个大，则交换他们的位置
            if (array[y] > array[y + 1]) {
                int hold = array[y];//2个瓶子换水，需要引入第3个瓶子
                array[y] = array[y + 1];
                array[y + 1] = hold;
            }
        }
    }
}
```
The original array is :
16 29 73 26 54 51 21 28 49 48 
bubble sorting course:   
16 29 26 54 51 21 28 49 48 **73** //先把最大的弄到最右一  
16 26 29 51 21 28 49 48 **54** 73 //再把第二大的弄到右二  
16 26 29 21 28 49 48 **51** 54 73 //.....  
16 26 21 28 29 48 **49** 51 54 73   
16 21 26 28 29 **48** 49 51 54 73   
16 21 26 28 **29** 48 49 51 54 73   
16 21 26 **28** 29 48 49 51 54 73   
16 21 **26** 28 29 48 49 51 54 73   
16 **21** 26 28 29 48 49 51 54 73 //结果  

 ### <a name='6.9'>6.9 CaseStudy:ComputingMean, Median and Mode Using Arrays :</a> 
 [mean](https://baike.baidu.com/item/%E5%B9%B3%E5%9D%87%E5%80%BC) 
 
 [median](https://baike.baidu.com/item/%E4%B8%AD%E4%BD%8D%E6%95%B0/3087401) 
 
 [mode](https://baike.baidu.com/item/%E4%BC%97%E6%95%B0/44796?fr=aladdin) 
 
 //做完这3道题，要能意识到为什么要先讲排序  
 
 **average**:a number expressing the central or typical value in a set of data, in particular the mode, median, or (most commonly) the mean, which is calculated by dividing the sum of the values in the set by their number.
 
``` C

```
 ### <a name='6.10'>6.10 SearchingArrays :</a> 
**linear search**:The linear searching method works well for small or unsorted arrays. However, for large arrays linear searching is inefficient. 但是是不用sort!
``` C
//
int linear_search (int array[], int count, int key_value)
{
    for (int i=0; i<count; i++) {
        if (array[i] == key_value) {
            return i;
        }
    }
    return -1;
}
```
**binary search**: **If the array is sorted**, the high-speed binary search technique can be used.

``` C
//Tips: 1. sort 2.compare 3.recursion/loop
//binary search的时间复杂度在sort上而不是compare
//这种写法，只能搜索整个数组
int binarySearch (int array[], int arrayCount, int keyValue)；
//如果我要用binary search搜索数组的某一部分呢？所以还是标准写法考虑周全。这就是高级和初级的区别之一吧。
size_t binarySearch (const int array[],
                     const int keyValue,
                     int low,
                     int high)
{
    while (high > low) {
        int midIndex = low + (high - low)/2;
        int midValue = array[midIndex];
        if (keyValue > midValue) {
            low = midIndex + 1;
        }else if (keyValue < midValue) {
            high = midIndex - 1;
        }else {
            high = low;
            return midIndex;
        }
    }
    return -1;//SIZE_T_MAX
}

```
 ### <a name='6.11'>6.11 MultidimensionalArrays :</a> 
 In a one-dimensional array parameter, the array brackets are empty. 
 **The first index of a multidimensional array is not required, but all subsequent indices are required**.
 **The compiler uses these indices to determine the locations in memory of elements in multidimensional arrays.**
 All array elements are stored consecutively(连续地) in memory regardless of the number of indices. 
 In a two-dimensional array, the first row is stored in memory followed by the second row.
 Providing the index values in a parameter declaration enables the compiler to tell the function how to locate an element in the array.
 **In a two-dimensional array, each row is basically a one-dimensional array.
 To locate an element in a particular row, the compiler must know how many elements are in each row so that it can skip the proper number of memory locations when accessing the array.**
``` C
int array[2][3] = {{1,2,3},{4,5,6}};
printf("%d",array[1][1]);
```
 ### <a name='6.12'>6.12 Variable-LengthArrays :</a> 
 *This feature is not supported in Microsoft Visual C++.*
``` C
int count;
int array[count];
```
 ### <a name='6.13'>6.13 SecureCProgramming :</a> 
 **Bounds Checking for Array Indices**  
 **C provides *no* automatic bounds checking for arrays, so you must provide your own.**  
 **When reading a string into a char array, scanf does not prevent buffer overflows. **  
 **If the format-control string were obtained from the user, an attacker could supply malicious conversion specifiers that would be “executed” by the formatted output function. Now that you know how to read strings into character arrays, it’s important to note that you should never use as a printf’s format-control string a character array that might contain user input.**  
 
``` C

```
